Alright, it's time to open a note on this. I've been tied up between school, jobs, this, and more. When this happens, I tend to stop documenting the littler changes that I end up doing, and the worst of it happens when I don't commit changes when I should. So eventually, the changes I do here or my other projects in my short interim will probably lead to a tidal wave of small changes. I have to get out of that habit and keep documenting.

That said, I'm going to try and push this project in the coming few days before I REALLY get busy in October, and before our presentation next Friday.
I'd like to have the core gameplay down before this, it doesn't have to be too fancy visually.

---

To be able to do this, I need to break down the rules (Thanks to https://www.croquetamerica.com/content.aspx?page_id=22&club_id=962311&module_id=450342)

#### Win Condition
The winner is decided by which player or team reaches seven points first.

#### Turns & Turn Order
In a 1v1 croquet match, each player has two balls (Black & Blue vs Red & Yellow). The order each ball is played in is determined by its color (blue -> red -> black -> yellow). When each ball is played in order and it's time for the blue ball to be played again, the turn advances.
	I like the idea of a UI indicator of four colored circles with the one we're on highlighted. Perhaps some arrows to show the side of the wicket.

#### Wickets & Scoring
A point is scored by a successful clearing of a Wicket. Wickets must be cleared on a specific side and the ball that has cleared it must have FULLY exited the wicket to be considered valid.
- In the case that two balls clear the wicket in the same turn, the one closest to the wicket that is valid scores.
When a wicket is cleared, the next wicket in the order of 13 total positions will become active. Recall that while there are only six wickets on the field, they each have a side that will be active. In the event of a 6-point tie for each player, the '13th' wicket, or Wicket #3, will activate again.

#### Strategy
With the two balls that each team has, it can be useful to strategize whether you will try to aim for the wicket, interfere with the other team's ball, or do something else. The risk and reward depends on the scope of your strategy.
	For example, if you use one ball to try and score and another to intercept the enemy, you aren't exactly risking that much, mostly the positioning of the ball that intercepts.
	However,  you can set up a ball for rebounding a scoring or intercepting ball if you like. There is less safety but a potentially greater reward in this instance.

#### Field & Boundaries
The field is rather systematically laid out. The field must be 4 units wide by 5 units tall. Each wicket must be placed in one-unit increments save for the innermost ones, which are one unit from the central pole in the field.
The corners are labelled as I (SW), II (NW), III (NE), and IV (SE). Players are required to start at corner IV.

If a ball goes out of bounds, it will be placed nearest to where it exited the boundary.

---

Those are a decent rundown of the basic rules of Golf Croquet, thanks to the USCA. Now about programming this, the first thing that comes to mind is the architecture that I'd have to build for the turn system to work. Firstly, I'd need to maintain the active balls on the field and keep them in order. Then, I'd need to make states around launching the balls in this order.
	We might benefit from some static function that returns the next ball in the order so I can feed it into the states afterwards.

Before that, though, let's think simply about the anatomy of a player launching the ball, as I have that implemented in a basic way thus far.
1. Active ball's player becomes aware of their turn (ex: some UI showing turn info, current ball, a camera transition to the current ball).
2. Active ball's player lines up their shot.
3. Watch the active ball roll until it is at rest, or until it stops.
4. Repeat this process for the next ball in the turn order from step 1.

This, with some checks that happen between turns, encapsulates the lot of the game logic. The logic to display this and transition to the proper state will lie in State #3 in the above description.

---

Now that I have a decent handle on how that SHOULD work, let's think about implementation. I need to have the references to navigate each Ball which is rather interesting at first glance. I need to have that information centralized in some lesser GameManager, maybe a MatchManager that holds references to each Ball, stores the current turn, active player ball, and more. From THIS information, the TurnStates can call methods the MatchManager exposes to reflect the game state changes.

After some dinner, I'm back. I modelled some wickets and a pole, and set up the field with proper dimensions and all that. Right NOW, I'm going to commit this work so far and get writing some scripts to test Wicket collisions and all that. I need those to work first with a script I'll put on each  ball.

At present, I'm having a tough time braining out what I need to make to represent the order of WicketGates, like I wrote about in [[Croquet Programming]].
The problem arose because I need to store the default order of WicketGates for a standard game of Croquet. I thought it might be pretty funny if I were to set it up to be modular, but that's biting me right in the thought process.
Data structures that COULD store the order of WicketGates are arrays, lists, maybe a Queue if we're feeling funny, we could do a LinkedList, or more... The problem I'm running into is that I'm not sure how I want to store or index my physical WicketControllers in the first place.
I'm making a MatchManager script that needs some data structure to store my Wickets with.  The problem is, I'm not yet sure how to order each Wicket on the field in a consistent manner. I *want* to make it modular, but that's out of my scope for now.

In any case, I'll just be numbering them based on the traditional order for Golf Croquet, which is essentially clockwise starting at the SW outermost wicket on.
With this, I can establish a sorted order of these within my list in MatchManager if I give each Wicket a "TrueId" that reflects their absolute and unique placement within the field.

#### Funny Modular MatchData?
I *could* make this a little modular by making a ScriptableObject for some MatchData, including a certain number of Wickets, from which you could set a WicketGateOrder like I'm trying to here. Then I could write a little CustomInspector.

I can't forget to do that so I don't let this idea slip out of my mind OR I re-derive it. In any case,

If I were to do this MatchData though, I'd also need some FieldData to specify the number of Wickets to create WicketGateOrder. 

---

Man, the way I'm setting this up is pretty silly and weird. Let's take a step back and see what I really want.

I need an order for players to traverse the Wickets in. Now, I have that programmed in, and I know it.

I need a way to "Activate" a certain wicket and have it act like I want it to. Does a wicket itself *need* to be aware of whether or not it's active? Or does it just need to publish a static event and let people know what's happened with it?
I don't really think I want the game logic to find itself too much with the pieces of the game. After all, a knight in a chess game doesn't itself know that it's getting a juicy fork next turn, or something.

Right, so the new focus for Wickets, and really the ONLY focus is *detecting and sharing if a ball clears it properly*. 

To implement this behaviour, I think I want to do it using that one neat little ScriptableObject event pattern.

---

After a little bit of trial and error, and using static events, I was able to get everything I needed to working in a basic fashion. Now, the Wickets can detect the balls, determine where they came from, and fires off the event when the ball clears it.
Could I just use the ball's velocity instead of the collider functions to check the direction? Yes, but that doesn't change what I think really stinks about this approach; the FromSouth and FromNorth lists. I don't know if I like having those double lists, even if they work. I initially wanted a dictionary, or even an array, but perhaps this is better.

As well, I even advanced the current WicketGate when its Wicket was cleared; essentially, I have the core game without the Turn system, Game Logic, and UI. NOICE for one day, that's for sure!

Tomorrow I'll see if I can't be back at it, but I have some sculpting and physics homework to do. Huzzah!